[main blog] Reducing support for 32-bit Apple targets (#487)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2019-12-30-reducing-support-for-apple-32bit-targets.md

---
layout: post
title: "Reducing support for Apple 32bit targets"
author: Pietro Albini
---

The Rust team is sad to announce that Rust 1.41.0 (to be released on January
30th, 2020) will be the last release with the current level of support for
Apple 32bit targets. Starting from Rust 1.42.0, those targets will be demoted
to Tier 3.

The decision was made on [RFC 2837], and was accepted by the compiler and

> release teams. This post explains what the change means, why we did it and how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
release teams. This post explains what the change means, why we did it, and how
```

[RFC 2837]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2837

# What’s a support tier?

The Rust compiler can build code targeting [a lot of
platforms][platform-support] (also called “targets”), but the team doesn't have
the resources or manpower to provide the same level of support and testing for
each of them.
To make our commitments clear, we follow a tiered support policy (currently
being formalized and revised in [RFC 2803]), explaining what we guarantee:

- Tier 1 targets can be downloaded through rustup and are fully tested
  during the project’s automated builds. A bug or a regression affecting one of
  these targets is usually prioritized more than bugs only affecting platforms
  in other tiers.

- Tier 2 targets can also be downloaded through rustup, but our
  automated builds don’t execute the test suite for them. While we guarantee a
  compiler build will be available, we don’t ensure it will actually work
  without bugs (or even work at all).

- Tier 3 targets are not available for download through rustup, and are
  ignored during our automated builds. You can still build their standard
  library for cross-compiling (or the full compiler in some cases) from source

>   on your own, but you might encounter build errors, bugs or missing features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on your own, but you might encounter build errors, bugs, or missing features.
```

[platform-support]: https://forge.rust-lang.org/release/platform-support.html
[RFC 2803]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2803

# Which targets are affected?

The main target affected by this change is 32bit macOS (`i686-apple-darwin`),
which will be demoted from Tier 1 to Tier 3. This will affect both using the
compiler on 32bit Mac hardware, and cross-compiling 32bit macOS binaries from
any other platform.

Additionally, the following 32bit iOS targets will be demoted from Tier 2 to
Tier 3:

* `armv7-apple-ios`
* `armv7s-apple-ios`
* `i386-apple-ios`

We will continue to provide the current level of support for all Apple 64bit
targets.

# Why are those targets being demoted?

Apple dropped support for running 32bit binaries starting from [macOS
10.15][deprecate-macos] and [iOS 11][deprecate-ios]. They also prevented all
developers from cross-compiling 32bit programs and apps starting from Xcode 10
(the platform’s IDE, containing the SDKs).

> Due to those decisions from Apple, the targets are not much useful to our users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to those decisions from Apple, the targets are no longer useful to our users,
```

> anymore, and their choice to prevent cross-compiling makes it hard for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and their choice to prevent cross-compiling makes it hard for the
```
